Availability Zones or AZs and Regions are
the core components within AWS that allow local and global redundancy.
Proper usage of these key resources is crucial for
anyone building high availability systems on AWS.
An AWS region contains multiple availability zones.
These availability zones allow for fault isolation within
a region and provide the simplest way to achieve a significant level of redundancy.
The AWS global infrastructure is made up of
multiple geographic regions spread around the world.
These regions are connected via high speed private network,
but the regions themselves are independent.
Availability Zones and regions our containers for AWS networking.
Networking in AWS is setup via
isolated Virtual Private Clouds or VPCs that exist in one AWS region.
You will get to see how you can have multiple of
your own custom networks within AWS allowing you complete control and security.
In this lesson, we will explore VPCs
themselves and also the networking that is configured within them.